Connecticut was made a state in 1788.
Native son Charles Goodyear invented vulcanized rubber. 
Samuel Colt was a gunsmith from Connecticut.
The English established a settlement at Hartford in 1635. 
New Haven was designed as a planned city in the colonies. 
Endangered sperm whales can be seen off the coast. 
Wadsworth Atheneum is the oldest public art museum.
Connecticut is unofficially known as the “Nutmeg State,” probably because sailors in the 18th century returned here from voyages with the valuable spice.  
It was in New Haven in 1876 that Alexander Graham Bell set up the first telephone conversation with his assistant, Thomas A. Watson. 
The Eastern oyster, which is a bivalve mollusk, thrives naturally in Connecticut’s rivers and embayments. 
The center of Connecticut state coat of arms depicts three grape vines that are bearing fruit. 
The Mountain Laurel is a flower that swathes the hills in pink and white, mostly in the spring.  
The cathedral of St. Joseph in Hartford is noted for its carillon bells as well as 24 spectacular stained-glass windows that line the nave.
The valley of the Shetucket River is known as the “last green valley” in the megalopolis between Washington and Boston.
In the early nineteenth century, Lambert Hitchcock from Cheshire was mass-producing hundreds of ornate rocking chairs called Boston Rockers, which are highly valued antiques today. 
After the first exploration in 1614, Dutch fur traders sailed up Connecticut River and built a fort at Hartford, which was called “House of Hope.”
Though Connecticut passed its first Abolition law in 1784, it lagged behind other states by neglecting to actually enforce the law until 1848. 
Abandoning his lumberwork, native-born Samuel Morey invented the internal combustion engine in 1792, which enabled an improved design of the commercially-used steamboat and, in the next century, the invention of the automobile.
The hillsides of the state yielded the first metal ores in the earliest days of the Colonies so that its craftsmen were fashioning metal while other colonies were whittling wood.
For 17 years, Mark Twain occupied a peach-colored Victorian Gothic house in Hartford, which is now open to the public and features personal items including an oak mantel brought back from Scotland.
The state of Connecticut is home to some interesting “firsts,” including the first medical diploma awarded in the U.S. by Yale University and the first U.S newspaper published in Hartford.