Rhode Island is officially called the “Ocean State.”  
The state flower is the violet. 
The Hasbro Toy Company was founded in Rhode Island. 
During colonial times, Rhode-Islanders made rum from molasses. 
Some towns are only accessible by bridges.
Roger Williams founded the first permanent settlement in 1636.
Cumberlandite is a brown-black rock found only in Rhode Island.
The Narragansett Pacer, the first American-bred horse, contributed to Rhode Island prosperity in the Colonial era.  
In the Jamestown Penguin Plunge, 300 tuxedo-clad swimmers jump into Mackerel Cove on New Year’s Day. 
When Anne Hutchinson was kicked out of the Massachusetts Bay colony for her beliefs about women’s rights, she settled with her family on Aquineck Island.
On Block Island, which is twelve miles off the coast, visitors can see Settlers’ Rock, which is inscribed with the names of the island’s first inhabitants.
Lime Rock Preserve features dolomitic marble which produces a special soil that nurtures rare plant species.
Although there are older carousels in America, none are as stunning as the Crescent Park Carousel in East Providence.
Rhode Island's economy is built upon three powerful industries: health services, tourism and manufacturing.  
The Newport Casino, which is actually a country club rather than a place to gamble, is home to the International Tennis Hall of Fame that hosts the only grass-court tournament in the United States.   
Visitors come to Blithewold, a 33-acre Victorian-era estate on the bay in Bristol, primarily for the spectacular display of daffodils.  
Rhode Island boasts 21 lighthouses, but the most distinctive is the Beavertail Light, which was reconstructed in granite in 1856 after the original went up in flames.  
The ship Katy, which was later named Providence, won the first battle of the Revolution in 1775 as part of the first Colonial Navy.  
Since the mid 1980’s, Providence has been transformed step-by-step from a gritty little city to one of Newsweek’s top-ten cities in the United States, an accomplishment welcomed by both inhabitants and tourists. 
Diners can sit on the deck  overlooking the harbor-front at Vincent's restaurant, where they can savor delectable seafood dishes such as stuffed scrod. 
Rough Point is a 49-room mansion overlooking the Atlantic Ocean that was once the home of Doris Duke, a tobacco heiress and prominent preservationist in the mid 1900’s.